# MODEL1006230030: Iyer2007_Arrhythmia_CardiacDeath

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL1006230030.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL1006230030.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


This a model from the article:  
**Mechanisms of abnormal calcium homeostasis in mutations responsible for catecholaminergic polymorphic ventricular tachycardia.**   
Iyer V, Hajjar RJ, Armoundas AA. _Circ Res_ 2007 Feb 2;100(2):e22-31
[17234962](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17234962) ,  
**Abstract:**   
Catecholaminergic polymorphic ventricular tachycardia is a heritable
arrhythmia unmasked by exertion or stress and is characterized by triggered
activity and sudden cardiac death. In this study, we simulated mutations in 2
genes linked to catecholaminergic polymorphic ventricular tachycardia, the
first located in calsequestrin (CSQN2) and the second in the ryanodine
receptor (RyR2). The aim of the study was to investigate the mechanistic basis
for spontaneous Ca2+ release events that lead to delayed afterdepolarizations
in affected patients. Sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) luminal Ca2+ sensing was
incorporated into a model of the human ventricular myocyte, and CSQN2
mutations were modeled by simulating disrupted RyR2 luminal Ca2+ sensing. In
voltage-clamp mode, the mutant CSQN2 model recapitulated the smaller calcium
transients, smaller time to peak calcium transient, and accelerated recovery
from inactivation seen in experiments. In current clamp mode, in the presence
of beta stimulation, we observed delayed afterdepolarizations, suggesting that
accelerated recovery of RyR2 induced by impaired luminal Ca2+ sensing
underlies the triggered activity observed in mutant CSQN2-expressing myocytes.
In current-clamp mode, in a model of mutant RyR2 that is characterized by
reduced FKBP12.6 binding to the RyR2 on beta stimulation, the impaired coupled
gating characteristic of these mutations was modeled by reducing cooperativity
of RyR2 activation. In current-clamp mode, the mutant RyR2 model exhibited
increased diastolic RyR2 open probability that resulted in formation of
delayed afterdepolarizations. In conclusion, these minimal order models of
mutant CSQN2 and RyR2 provide plausible mechanisms by which defects in RyR2
gating may lead to the cellular triggers for arrhythmia, with implications for
the development of targeted therapy.

This model was taken from the [CellML
repository](http://www.cellml.org/models) and automatically converted to SBML.  
The original model was: [ **Iyer V, Hajjar RJ, Armoundas AA. (2007) -
version=1.0**
](http://models.cellml.org/exposure/5080f254cc69db6df176020936732567)  
The original CellML model was created by:  
**Penny Noble**   
penny.noble@dpag.ox.ac.uk  
The University of Oxford  

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/). It is copyright (c)
2005-2011 The BioModels.net Team.  
To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not. .  
  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Nov√®re N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)


